Ghost in the Machine?: Hijacking Industrial Robots via ROS 1
CTRL ALT DEL....EVERY?? Talk 

By: Gh057x Originally posted for the Cackalacky Con Community Research Series

In the modern smart factory, Autonomous Mobile Robots (AMRs) are the lifeblood of production. They are heavy, they are fast, and they are increasingly connected. But beneath the sleek industrial design of many AGVs and AMRs lies a decade-old middleware that was never designed for a hostile network environment: ROS 1 (Robot Operating System).

In this post, we’ll explore how a lack of authentication in the ROS 1 ecosystem allows an attacker to transition from a digital breach to a kinetic impact—literally hijacking a 500kg robot and using it as a physical projectile.

The Vulnerability: Trust by Default

ROS 1 operates on a "Master" node architecture. The Master acts as a name service, allowing different parts of the robot (nodes) to find each other and communicate via "topics."

The problem? ROS 1 has zero native authentication. If you can route to the ROS Master (typically on port 11311), you are part of the robot. You can listen to its sensor data, spoof its LIDAR scans, and most dangerously, publish to the /cmd_vel topic—the stream that controls the robot's velocity and direction.

The Attack: Kinetic Hijacking

In our recent research, we demonstrated a "Remote Kinetic Hijack." By gaining access to the factory’s internal VLAN, an attacker can point their own machine to the robot’s ROS Master:

export ROS_MASTER_URI=http://<ROBOT_IP>:11311


Once connected, we don't even need to exploit a memory corruption or a zero-day. We simply run a Python script that publishes malicious velocity commands at a higher frequency (100Hz) than the robot’s legitimate navigation stack (usually 10Hz).

In our Gazebo + TurtleBot3 simulation, the results are immediate. The robot ignores its intended path, spins uncontrollably, and collides with infrastructure. By simultaneously flooding the /scan topic with "empty" data, we can blind the robot's LIDAR, ensuring its safety systems believe the path is clear even as it hurtles toward a collision.

Detection: Finding the Ghost

The "Purple Team" approach to robotics involves active monitoring. If you suspect a robot is behaving erratically, you can hunt the intruder using the robot's own tools:

Node Enumeration: rosnode list will reveal unauthorized nodes (like external_network_injector) that shouldn't be there.

Publisher Tracking: rostopic info /cmd_vel reveals the IP address of every machine sending movement commands. If you see an external IP, you've found your attacker.

Frequency Analysis: rostopic hz /cmd_vel can detect the "flooding" behavior characteristic of a hijack.

Moving Toward a Secure Future

We cannot stop using AMRs, but we must stop deploying them with "default-trust" configurations. The path forward includes:

Migrating to ROS 2: SROS2 introduces DDS-Security, providing the encryption and authentication ROS 1 lacks.

Network Micro-segmentation: Industrial robots should live in isolated "cells" with strict firewalling between them and the rest of the enterprise.

Hardware Safety Loops: Critical safety systems (like E-Stops and LIDAR-based slow-downs) should be hardwired to the motor controllers, ensuring that even a total software compromise cannot disable physical safety.

Conclusion

The "Ghost in the Machine" isn't a myth—it's a side effect of legacy protocols meeting modern connectivity. As we continue to bridge the gap between bits and atoms, security must move from an afterthought to a core requirement of robotic safety.

Want to see the demo in action? Hit me up and check out my Demo Setup Guide to run this attack in your own Gazebo lab.
